# team-boba
## Dataset Overview
For our project, we used data from the Center for Global Development (CGD). CGD’s COVID-19 Education Policy Tracker provides information on school closures and reopening following the COVID-19 pandemic. The school closures dataset includes information on the timing and length of closures, the number of confirmed cases when schools closed, distance learning plans, and additional support offered to students and families while schools are closed. The reopening tab records the date of school reopenings as well as information related to safety precautions, accelerated learning, and more. The dates dataset provides detailed dates of school closure, reopening, and academic break. CGD collects its information from a mix of sources including official reports from governments and international organizations, government social media pages, and news reports. 
In addition to the three CGD datasets, we also used two datasets. The COVID dataset is from OurWorldInData, which used the COVID-19 Data Repository at Johns Hopkins University and added a cleaned version of the number of new cases, deaths, and testing rate by country. The GDP dataset is from the International Monetary Fund, which records the annual percent change in real GDP growth for each country.

## Data Cleaning
The datasets that we used had many columns resembling dates of many forms such as 4/12/20, April 12, 2020, or 12 April 20. To make these columns more uniform, part of the cleaning process required that we convert these character date columns into POSIX date objects in R. In addition, many numeric columns were read in the type of “character” and required conversion to “numeric” in order to perform calculations and continuous analysis.
To eliminate the effect of weekdays and weekends in covid cases report, we smooth out covid-case values with a 7-day interval. Also, since different dataset uses different names for a single country, we manually find these mismatches and correct their name into the same format. 
